Propose SKIPs and add mission/vision/values, governance (#3585)
scikit-image/scikit-image: doc/source/skips/0-skip-process.rst

.. _skip0:

============================
SKIP 0 — Purpose and Process
============================

:Author: Jarrod Millman <millman@berkeley.edu>
:Author: Juan Nunez-Iglesias <juan.nunez-iglesias@monash.edu>
:Status: Active
:Type: Process
:Created: 2019-07-30

What is a SKIP?
--------------

SKIP stands for SciKit-Image Proposal. A SKIP is a design document providing

> information to the NumPy community, or describing a new feature for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
information to the community, or describing a new feature for
```

scikit-image or its processes or environment. The SKIP should provide a

> concise technical specification of the feature and a rationale for the feature.

Reviewer: This sentence only applies when it is a feature SKIP.

Author: Updated.

We intend SKIPs to be the primary mechanisms for proposing major new
features, for collecting community input on an issue, and for

> documenting the design decisions that have gone into NumPy. The SKIP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
documenting the design decisions that have gone into scikit-image. The SKIP
```

author is responsible for building consensus within the community and
documenting dissenting opinions.

Because the SKIPs are maintained as text files in a versioned
repository, their revision history is the historical record of the
feature proposal [1]_.

Types
^^^^^

There are three kinds of SKIPs:

1. A **Standards Track** SKIP describes a new feature or implementation
   for scikit-image.

2. An **Informational** SKIP describes a scikit-image design issue, or provides
   general guidelines or information to the Python community, but does not
   propose a new feature. Informational SKIPs do not necessarily represent a
   scikit-image community consensus or recommendation, so users and
   implementers are free to ignore Informational SKIPs or follow their advice.

3. A **Process** SKIP describes a process surrounding scikit-image, or
   proposes a change to (or an event in) a process. Process SKIPs are

>    like Standards Track SKIPs but apply to areas other than the NumPy

Reviewer: NumPy language—guess even in NumPy we forgot to update this properly from the Python version

   language itself. They may propose an implementation, but not to
   scikit-image's codebase; they require community consensus. Examples include
   procedures, guidelines, changes to the decision-making process, and changes
   to the tools or environment used in NumPy development. Any meta-SKIP is
   also considered a Process SKIP.

SKIP Workflow
-------------

The SKIP process begins with a new idea for scikit-image.  It is highly
recommended that a single SKIP contain a single key proposal or new
idea. Small enhancements or patches often don't need
a SKIP and can be injected into the scikit-image development workflow

> with a pull request to the NumPy `repo`_. The more focused the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with a pull request to the scikit-image `repo`_. The more focused the
```

on the SKIP.

A SKIP can also be ``Rejected``. Perhaps after all is said and done it
was not a good idea. It is still important to have a record of this
fact. The ``Withdrawn`` status is similar---it means that the SKIP author
themselves has decided that the SKIP is actually a bad idea, or has
accepted that a competing proposal is a better alternative.

When a SKIP is ``Accepted``, ``Rejected``, or ``Withdrawn``, the SKIP should be
updated accordingly. In addition to updating the status field, at the very
least the ``Resolution`` header should be added with a link to the relevant
post in the mailing list archives.

SKIPs can also be ``Superseded`` by a different SKIP, rendering the
original obsolete. The ``Replaced-By`` and ``Replaces`` headers
should be added to the original and new SKIPs respectively.

Process SKIPs may also have a status of ``Active`` if they are never
meant to be completed, e.g. SKIP 0 (this SKIP).

How a SKIP becomes Accepted
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A SKIP is ``Accepted`` by consensus of all interested contributors. We
need a concrete way to tell whether consensus has been reached. When
you think a SKIP is ready to accept, send an email to the

> numpy-discussion mailing list with a subject like:

Reviewer: Wrong mailing list.

Types
^^^^^

There are three kinds of SKIPs:

1. A **Standards Track** SKIP describes a new feature or implementation
   for scikit-image.

2. An **Informational** SKIP describes a scikit-image design issue, or provides
   general guidelines or information to the Python community, but does not
   propose a new feature. Informational SKIPs do not necessarily represent a
   scikit-image community consensus or recommendation, so users and
   implementers are free to ignore Informational SKIPs or follow their advice.

3. A **Process** SKIP describes a process surrounding scikit-image, or
   proposes a change to (or an event in) a process. Process SKIPs are
   like Standards Track SKIPs but apply to areas other than the scikit-image
   library itself. They may propose an implementation, but not to
   scikit-image's codebase; they require community consensus. Examples include
   procedures, guidelines, changes to the decision-making process, and changes
   to the tools or environment used in scikit-image development. Any meta-SKIP
   is also considered a Process SKIP.

SKIP Workflow
-------------

The SKIP process begins with a new idea for scikit-image.  It is highly

> recommended that a single SKIP contain a single key proposal or new

Author: It seems most uses of "recommend" are followed by an infinitive... See e.g. https://english.stackexchange.com/questions/52085/recommend-you-to-infinitive-vs-recommend-that-you-infinitive or https://esllibrary.com/blog/recommend . As in, "it was recommended that @stefanv **refrain** from correcting @jni's grammar." =P

> recommended that a single SKIP contain a single key proposal or new

Reviewer: @soupault Don't worry, this is what happens when you write a book with someone ;)  Arguing about grammar is an excellent way to spend quality time together.

I think based on @jni's very helpful links, we can skirt the issue in various ways, but the following seems straightforward and simple:

"A SKIP should contain a single key proposal or new idea"

"Should" is not "must", and when necessary the SKIP author will override it.  That should (see what I did there) seldom happen.

idea. Small enhancements or patches often don't need
a SKIP and can be injected into the scikit-image development workflow
with a pull request to the scikit-image `repo`_. The more focused the
SKIP, the more successful it tends to be.

If in doubt, split your SKIP into several well-focused ones.

Each SKIP must have a champion---someone who writes the SKIP using the style
and format described below, shepherds the discussions in the appropriate
forums, and attempts to build community consensus around the idea.  The SKIP
champion (a.k.a. Author) should first attempt to ascertain whether the idea is
suitable for a SKIP. Posting to the scikit-image `mailing list`_ is the best
way to go about doing this.

The proposal should be submitted as a draft SKIP via a `GitHub pull
request`_ to the ``doc/source/skips`` directory with the name
``skip-<n>.rst`` where ``<n>`` is an appropriately assigned number (e.g.,
``skip-35.rst``). The draft must use the :ref:`skip-template` file.

Once the PR is in place, the SKIP should be announced on the mailing
list for discussion (comments on the PR itself should be restricted to
minor editorial and technical fixes).

> At the earliest convenience, the PR should be merged (regardless of

Author: Added this second sentence to the text, as it is gold. =)

travelling or similar and need some time to respond.

In general, the goal is to make sure that the community has consensus,
not provide a rigid policy for people to try to game. When in doubt,
err on the side of asking for more feedback and looking for
opportunities to compromise.

If the final comment period passes without any substantive objections,
then the SKIP can officially be marked ``Accepted``. You should send a
followup email notifying the list (celebratory emoji optional but
encouraged 🎉✨), and then update the SKIP by setting its ``:Status:``
to ``Accepted``, and its ``:Resolution:`` header to a link to your
followup email.

If there *are* substantive objections, then the SKIP remains in
``Draft`` state, discussion continues as normal, and it can be
proposed for acceptance again later once the objections are resolved.

In unusual cases, the `scikit-image Steering Council`_ may be asked to decide
whether a controversial SKIP is ``Accepted``.

Maintenance
^^^^^^^^^^^

In general, Standards track SKIPs are no longer modified after they have
reached the Final state as the code and project documentation are considered
the ultimate reference for the implemented feature.

> However, finalized Standards track SKIPs may be updated as needed.

Reviewer: This sentence seems to contradict the previous paragraph.

Author: @stefanv this is [directly lifted from NEP-0](https://numpy.org/neps/nep-0000.html#maintenance). Would you like to clarify with @jarrodmillman what this text was *supposed* to say? =)

Reviewer: I'll check with Jarrod.

Reviewer: Basic gist: "These are typically not modified after reaching Final, but may be under special circumstances."

Process SKIPs may be updated over time to reflect changes
to development practices and other details. The precise process followed in
these cases will depend on the nature and purpose of the SKIP being updated.

Format and Template
-------------------

> SKIPs are UTF-8 encoded text files using the reStructuredText_ format.  Please

Reviewer: I wonder if we should be heretical and consider Markdown instead?

Author: We can cross that bridge when a viable implementation for using markdown in our docs presents itself. I'm not about to add sphinx-markdown to this PR!
